
# Bits and bytes
In this chapter we will discuss memory sizes. You will learn what are bits, bytes, words, etc.

## Bit
A bit is the smallest unit of data. It is a single `1` or `0`. Everything in computers is made from bits. As a unit of measurement it is represented as `b`.

## Byte
A byte is 8 consecutive bits. Things are more commonly measured in bytes as computers mostly work in bytes rather than bits.S It is represented by `B`, the capitalization makes a world of difference.S
You have looked at your internet speed. It is usually represented in `MB/s`, which means `Megabytes per second`. We now know a byte is 8 bits, but what does mega mean? Is it just a way cooler byte? Well not really, you may be familiar with the prefixes `deci, centi, milli...` that are used in front of units of measurement (`milliliter, centimeter,...`). This is similar to that (the names and letters used are the same, think `kilometer` and KB - `kilobyte`). See the following table:
| K | M | G | T | P | ... |
| - | - | - | - | - | --- |
| Kilo | Mega | Giga | Tera | Peta | ... |
| ~1000 | ~million | ~billion | ~trillion | ~quadrillion | ... |

The `~` is there for a reason, as a kilobyte is not exactly 1000 bytes, rather it is 1024 bytes (2^10), again everything is in powers of two. The same way a kilobyte (`KB`) is not 1000 bytes, neither is a megabyte (`MB`) one million bytes, it is actually $1048576$ bytes. The same thing works for bits, so around a thousand bits is one kilobit (`Kb`).
The next time you are looking at internet speeds, keep an eye out for the capitalization of the `b`, a speed of `2MB/S` is 8 times better than `2Mb/s`, as one byte consists of 8 bits.

## Word
You have probably at least heard of bytes and bits before this series of tutorials, but probably have not heard of words. 